If you run after two hares you will catch neither.
A chattering bird builds no nest.
Only a fool tests the depth of the river with both feet.
He who thinks he is leading and has no one following him is only taking a walk.
No person is born great - great people become great when others are sleeping.
A family is like a forest, when you are outside it is dense, when you are inside you see that each tree has it's place.
A flea can trouble a lion more than a lion can trouble a flea.
He who is being carried does not realize how far the town is.
Smooth seas do not make skillful sailors.
Crying a lot does not give you peace of mind.
He is a fool whose sheep runs away twice.
Wealth is like hair in the nose: it hurts to be separated whether from a little or from a lot.
A boat cannot go forward if each rows his own way.
Do not look where you fell, but where you slipped.
Ashes fly back into the face of him who throws them.
Knowledge is like a garden: If it is not cultivated, it cannot be harvested.
No water without waves.
Between true friends even water drunk together is sweet enough.
All monkeys cannot hang on the same branch.
When God cooks, you don't see smoke .
A tree does not move unless there is wind.
If you don't stand for something, you will fall for something.
Even the mightiest eagle comes down to the tree tops to rest.
Even the best cooking pot will not produce food.
Do not follow a person who is running away.
Do not follow a person who is running away.
It is not what you are called, but what you answer to.
It is not work that kills, but worry.
A cutting word is worse than a bowstring, a cut may heal, but the cut of the tongue does not.
If you climb up a tree, you must climb down the same tree.
Don't set sail on someone else's star.
There are no shortcuts to the top of the palm tree.
When a needle falls into a deep well, many people will look into the well, but few will be ready to go down after it.
For tomorrow belongs to the people who prepare for it today.
Knowledge without wisdom is like water in the sand.
Being happy is better than being king.
To try and to fail is not laziness.
If you offend, ask for a pardon; if offended forgive.
A person with too much ambition cannot sleep in peace.
Even the best dancer on the stage must retire sometime.
Even the best dancer on the stage must retire sometime.
A good deed is something one returns.
Those who accomplish great things pay attention to little ones.
Ugliness with a good character is better than beauty.
The laughter of a child lights up the house.
Sticks in a bundle are unbreakable.
He who learns, teaches.
Patience is the mother of a beautiful child.
He who refuses to obey cannot command.
A single stick may smoke, but it will not burn.
Seeing is different than being told.
Rising early makes the road short.
By crawling a child learns to stand.
African Proverb
By crawling a child learns to stand.
Hope does not disappoint.
If you want to go quickly, go alone. If you want to go far, go together.
There is no medicine to cure hatred.
A quarrelsome chief does not hold a village together.
If you're not part of the solution, you're part of the problem.
You can tell a ripe corn by its look.
When I think of the others's misfortunes, I forget mine.
If you are filled with pride, then you will have no room for wisdom.
A stream cannot rise above its source.
No matter how beautiful and well crafted a coffin might look, it will not make anyone wish for death.
Every misfortune is a blessing.
Love is like a baby: it needs to be treated tenderly.
A ripe melon falls by itself.
A man who pays respect to the great paves his own way for greatness.
Children are the reward of life.
Children are the reward of life.
Lack of knowledge is darker than night.
Do not call to a dog with a whip in your hand.
Repetition is the mother of knowledge.
Wood already touched by fire is not hard to set alight.
One must talk little and listen much.
However long the night may last, there will be a morning.
By labor comes wealth.
Having a good discussion is like having riches.
Ingratitude is sooner or later fatal to its author.
When there is no enemy within, the enemies outside cannot hurt you.
If you damage the character of another, you damage your own.
Rain does not fall on one roof alone.
A friend is someone you share the path with.
A tree is straightened while it is still young.
One who relates with a corrupt person likewise gets corrupted.
Confiding a secret to an unworthy person is like carrying grain in a bag with a hole.
The earth is a beehive, we all enter by the same door.
The earth is a beehive, we all enter by the same door.
He who does not know one thing knows another.
One falsehood spoils a thousand truths.
Every fame has a foundation.
A feeble effort will not fulfill the self.
Do not call the forest that shelters you a jungle.
A husband with a gorgeous looking lady has no any difference with that farmer whose corn grow at the roadside.
There is no need for a man to destroy all beehives just because of a sting from a bee.
If you go to sleep with itching anus, then be prepared to wake up with smelly figures.
A man being short does not make him a boy.
You don’t expect to find a virgin woman in a maternity ward.
You can never hide your behind from a person that you live in the same roof with.
A child is forever allowed to play with her mother’s breast and there is no time it will seem right for them to play with their fathers testicles.
Hot anger cannot cook yams.
A man who does not know where he is going will reach where they want using any road.
The frowning face of a goat cannot stop its owner to take it to the market.
If you swallowed a knife, the throat can fail to let its passage, but the anus must find a way to expel it.
That sun that has the capabilities of melting the wax can also melt clay that has been hardened.
A widow is the only woman who knows where her man is every night.
A man who always says the truth will find himself being expelled from 9 villages.
A married couple and backsides go hand in hand because constant friction cannot separate them.
If a fly perches on a man’s scrotum, he requires loads of care to kill it.
An old woman dislikes dry bones being mentioned in a proverb.
A man with diarrhea will not require any one to give them the direction to the door.
The major reason that makes a tortoise to forever carry its house is fear.
Whoever presents his own head to break coconut will not partake in the eating of it.
The little opportunity given opportunity given to a monkey to wear clothes does not guarantee it to join the dining table.
When the cock is drunk, he forgets about the hawk.
No matter how kind a man is, he will never give his wife as a gift to his friends.
The wolf on the hill is not as hungry as the wolf climbing the hill.
The buttocks are like married couple, though there is constant friction between them, they will still love and live together.
A man who hangs around a beautiful girl without saying a word ends up fetching water for guests at her wedding.
If something that was going to chop off your head only knocks off your cap, you should be grateful.
Drinking Garri doesn’t mean you are poor, but allowing it to swell before drinking is poverty.
The Frowning of a he-goat does not stop it from being priced.
If a man wants to grow a long tooth, he should have the lip to cover it.
The death of a lion cannot be announced by a goat.
Girls are like mangoes. While you are waiting for them to ripen, others are eating them with salt.
A person who sells eggs should not start a fight in the market.
When a goat laughs upon hearing that a lion is around, one needs to find out what grass it has been eating.
When the house-rat starts calling itself bushmeat because it is getting fat, it has started passing its boundary.
By the time the fool has learnt the game, the players have dispersed.
As powerful as a king is, he cannot command anyone to pass faeces for him.
A man who swallows a whole coconut has a complete faith in his anus.
The cow in a hurry to go to America will come back as a corned beef.
A person who sells eggs should not start a fight in the market.
No matter how far an eagle flies up the sky ,it will definitely come down to look for food
Respect the fools to avoid noise.
The little opportunity given to a monkey to wear cloths does not guarantee it to join the dinning table.
You cannot convince a monkey that honey is sweeter than banana
No Matter How Hot Your Anger May Be, It Cannot Cook
Without fools there would be no wisdom.
However much the buttocks are in a hurry, they will always remain behind
Before You go out with a widow, you must first ask her what killed the husband.
A child can play with its mother's breasts, but not its father's testicles.
There's no virgin in a maternity ward...
It's better to fall from a tree and a break your back than to fall in love and break your heart.
If A Man Wants To Grow A Long Tooth, He Should Have The Lip To Cover it.
An agama lizard in the village will always remain an agama in town.
When the mouse laughs at the cat, there is a hole nearby.
It requires a lot of carefulness to kill the fly that perches on the scrotum’.
Man wey carry Ogbono soup pot for hand,and di man wey carry fufu for head,na who go find who go?
Na co-operation dey mak rice full for pot.
Person wey madman don bite before if im see mechanic he go take off
Ear wey no dey hear word, go follow head fall for ground when dem cut am
Na person wey shit and im no clean yash fly dey follow pass
Na when rain stop naim person wey carry umbrella dey know say na load hin carry.
Never underestimate the power of stupid people in large numbers.
Don’t mistake a short man for a boy
Anger, no matter how hot it is, can never cook yam.
A goat’s frown cannot stop it from being taken to the market.
A monkey that eats grass instead of banana is a goat.
No matter how far you urinate, the last drop always falls at your feet
I Love the African proverb, feel sooo real and hilarious when you read them.
He who swallows a complete coconut have absolute trust in his anus - My Favourite. cheesy
The gentle strides of a tiger does not indicate cowardice.
The monkey who tries to see the hunter clearly collects bullets in its eyes.
The sparrow said that since the hunter has learnt how to shoot without missing, it has equally learnt to fly without perching.
Snails don't venture where horned animals gather.
The frowning of a he-goat does not stop it from being priced.
If the sun claims superiority over the moon, let it shine at night.
A hen does not expect warning to hide it's chicks from the kite.
A man does not test the depth of a river with both legs.
A fly perched on the scrotum is gently nudged off...never struck!
A wise fish should know that a beautiful earthworm that looks so easy to swallow, has a sharp hook attached to it.
The okro plant never grows taller than the owner.
The man who fetches firewood infested with insects, invites lizards into his house.
Rat wey follow lizard go swim no sabi say him go remain wet when lizard body don dry finish.
Since all lizards lie on their bellies, one can hardly tell which has stomach ache.
The monkey who tries to see the hunter clearly collects bullets in its eyes.
The sparrow said that since the hunter has learnt how to shoot without missing, it has equally learnt to fly without perching.
Snails don't venture where horned animals gather.
The frowning of a he-goat does not stop it from being priced.
If the sun claims superiority over the moon, let it shine at night.
A hen does not expect warning to hide it's chicks from the kite.
A man does not test the depth of a river with both legs.
A fly perched on the scrotum is gently nudged off...never struck!
A wise fish should know that a beautiful earthworm that looks so easy to swallow, has a sharp hook attached to it.
The okro plant never grows taller than the owner.
The man who fetches firewood infested with insects, invites lizards into his house.
Rat wey follow lizard go swim no sabi say him go remain wet when lizard body don dry finish.
Since all lizards lie on their bellies, one can hardly tell which has stomach ache.
A bird that flies off the earth and lands on an anthill is still on the ground. — Igbo proverb
He that beats the drum for the mad man to dance is no better than the mad manhimself. — African proverb
Where water is the boss there the land must obey. — African proverb
No matter how beautiful and well crafted a coffin might look, it will not make anyone wish for death. — African proverb
When the shepherd comes home in peace, the milk is sweet. — Ethiopian proverb
A spider’s cobweb isn’t only its sleeping spring but also its food trap. — African proverb
If you do not have patience you cannot make beer. — Ovambo proverb
He who runs after good fortune runs away from peace. — African proverb
Teeth do not see poverty. — Masai proverb
You have little power over what’s not yours. — Zimbabwean proverb
If you pick up one end of the stick you also pick up the other. — Ethiopian proverb
Better little than too little. — Cameroonian proverb
You must attend to your business with the vendor in the market, and not to the noise of the market. — Beninese proverb
When you befriend a chief remember that he sits on a rope. — Ugandan proverb
The night has ears.
The child you sired hasn’t sired you.
A doctor who invoked a storm on his people cannot prevent his house from destruction.b
An intelligent enemy is better than a stupid friend.
The young bird does not crow until it hears the old ones.
If you carry the egg basket do not dance.
The food which is prepared has no master.
The worlds of the elders do not lock all the doors; they leave the right door open.
Even the best cooking pot will not produce food.
The child of a rat is a rat.
Where you will sit when you are old shows where you stood in youth.
He who is unable to dance says that the yard is stony.
You cannot name a child that is not born.
Do a good deed and throw it into the sea.
When the roots of a tree begin to decay, it spreads death to the branches.
Slander by the stream will be heard by the frogs.
Swahili words to know before traveling in East Africa
A child is a child of everyone.
Even the lion, the king of the forest, protects himself against flies.
Birds sing not because they have answers but because they have songs.
If your only tool is a hammer, you will see every problem as a nail.
When you show the moon to a child, it sees only your finger.
It is crooked wood that shows the best sculptor.
One who bathes willingly with cold water doesn’t feel the cold.
Earth is the queen of beds.
Be a mountain or lean on one.
A flea can trouble a lion more than a lion can trouble a flea.
Wisdom is like a baobab tree; no one individual can embrace it.
The death of an elderly man is like a burning library.
Anger and madness are brothers.
Do not follow a person who is running away.
An orphaned calf licks its own back.
Even as the archer loves the arrow that flies, so too he loves the bow that remains constant in his hands.
He who burns down his house knows why ashes cost a fortune.
If you are building a house and a nail breaks, do you stop building or do you change the nail?
You cannot build a house for last year’s summer.
We desire to bequeath two things to our children; the first one is roots, the other one is wings.
Whoever presents his own head to break coconut will not partake in the eating of it.
The little opportunity given opportunity given to a monkey to wear clothes does not guarantee it to join the dining table.
When the cock is drunk, he forgets about the hawk.
No matter how kind a man is, he will never give his wife as a gift to his friends.
The wolf on the hill is not as hungry as the wolf climbing the hill.
The buttocks are like married couple, though there is constant friction between them, they will still love and live together.
A man who hangs around a beautiful girl without saying a word ends up fetching water for guests at her wedding.
If something that was going to chop off your head only knocks off your cap, you should be grateful.
Drinking Garri doesn’t mean you are poor, but allowing it to swell before drinking is poverty.
The Frowning of a he-goat does not stop it from being priced.
If a man wants to grow a long tooth, he should have the lip to cover it.
The death of a lion cannot be announced by a goat.
Girls are like mangoes. While you are waiting for them to ripen, others are eating them with salt.
A person who sells eggs should not start a fight in the market.
When a goat laughs upon hearing that a lion is around, one needs to find out what grass it has been eating.
When the house-rat starts calling itself bushmeat because it is getting fat, it has started passing its boundary.
By the time the fool has learnt the game, the players have dispersed.
As powerful as a king is, he cannot command anyone to pass faeces for him.
A man who swallows a whole coconut has a complete faith in his anus.
The cow in a hurry to go to America will come back as a corned beef.
